# Tenses
## Present Simple

Form: subject + verb (present)

I, you, we, they: use a verb without -s

He, she, it: add -s to the verb

Examples

- Habits and routines: **drink** coffee every morning.
- Shawn **goes** to the beach on Sundays.
- Children often **play** video games after school.FactsCathy **works** as a teacher.You **sing** very well.Water **boils** at 100°C
  Present ContinuousForm: subject + am/is/are + verb(-ing)I: amHe, she, it: isYou, we they: areExamplesActions happening now (at the time of speaking)I **am drinking** coffee right now.We **are having** breakfast.It **is raining** outside.Temporary activitiesArun **is learning** to play the guitar.(He is in the process of learning guitar)I **am watching** a really interesting TV series at the moment.My sister **is staying** with us for a couple of weeks.Changes taking place nowEnglish lessons on YouTube **are becoming** very popular these days.(popularity of English lessons on YouTube is increasing)The price of crude oil **is falling** rapidly.Scientists say that the Earth **is getting** warmer.
  Past SimpleForm: Regular verbs: Subject + verb(+ed)Irregular verbs: Subject + verb(irregular verb)ExamplesCompleted actions in the pastI **played** soccer with my friends last Saturday.Karen **gave** us a present for our wedding anniversary.We **received** the package this morning.My grandfather **built** this house in 1968.Antonio **lived** in Malaysia for five years.
  Past continuousForm: subject + was/were + verb(-ing)I/He/She/It: wasYou/We/They: wereExamplesUnfinished, ongoing action in the past(+finished action)I **was having** dinner with my family when the doorbell **rang**.It **was raining** when Priya **left** for work.The power **went** *out* while the children **were studying**.While we **were waiting** at the bus stop, we **saw** a car accident.
  Present perfectForm: subject + have/has +verb(past participle/-ed form)I/You/We/They: haveHe/She/It: hasFocus on the completion of an action and doesn’t mention the exact timeExamplesExperiencesI **have taught** English to many students.(in my career)Past Simple: I **taught** many students when I was a teacher.(my career is over, I’m not longer a teacher now)Ashley **has visited** France four times.(in her life)Past Simple: Ashley **visited** France in 2015.We **have seen** two movies this week.Past Simple: We **saw** two movies last week.Recent actions or eventsI **have finished** my homework.(time doesn’t matter, the important things is the completion of the homework, no mention of time)Past Simple: I **finished** my homework *at 6.30p.m.*.Arthur **has lost** his glasses.(now, Arthur doesn’t have his glasses)Past Simple: Arthur **lost** his glasses *at the party*.The police **have arrested** a young man in connection with the robbery.Past Simple: The police **arrested** a young man *last night* in connection with the robbery.
  Present Perfect Continuous Form: subject + have/has + been + verb(-ing)ExamplesActions that started in the past and are continuingI **have been waiting** to see the doctor for two hours/since 5 p.m.For: talking about about the amount of timeSince: used to mention the starting point of an action He **has been playing** tennis since he was a child / for 20 years. She has been learning English for eight months / since last October.We **have been living** in this town for a very long time / since 1980.It **has been raining** *all morning* / since 4 a.m.In fixed phrases like: “all moring”, “all day”, “all week”, etc. we don’t use ‘for’When you mention the amount of time(like two hours), or you mention a starting point(like since he was a child), you must use present perfect continuous tense
  Past PerfectWhen we **got to** the theater, the movie **started**. (past simple)We got to the theater first, right after that, the movie started playingWhen we **got to** the theater, the movie **had started**. (past perfect)The movie started before we got to the theaterForm: subject + had + verb(past participle)When we have two actions in the past, we use the past perfect if we wat to clearly indicate which happened firstWe do this to avoid confusion in the order of eventsExamplesThe first past action(when there are two or more past actions)I **was** sick because I **had eaten** too much the previous night.‘I had eaten too much food’, then the next day, ‘I was sick’The girl **looked** very familiar. I **had seen** her somewhere before.First, ‘I had saw her somewhere before’, so ‘she looked very familiar’Joel **rushed** to his boss’s office, but she **had gone** home already.
  Past Perfect ContinuousThis tense is just like the past perfect simple except the first action is continuousForm: subject + had + been + verb(-ing)ExamplesThe first(continuous) past actionI **felt** really tired because I **have been driving** all day.She **had been waiting** for two hours when the doctor finally **arrived**.The ground **was** wet because it **had been raining**.When he **quit** his job at the factory, he **had been working** there for 12 years.Future SimpleGoing to ー＞plans and inventionsForm: subject + am/is/are + going to + verb(base form)ExamplesWe **are going to buy** a car.I **am going to start** exercising regularly.Rahul **is going to take** a vacation from work.Present continuous ー＞fixed arrangementsForm: subject + am/is/are + verb(base form)ExamplesI **am having** lunch with my parents on Saturday.We **are flying** to Mumbai the day after tomorrow. Josh **is giving** a presentation to the board of directors on the 10th.**Going to** vs. **present continuous**I **am going to see** the dentist sometime next week. (plan)I **am seeing** the dentist tomorrow afternoon. (arrangement)We are going to get married this year. (plan)We are getting married on April 21st. (arrangement)Will ー＞instant decisions, offers , promisesForm: subject + will + verb(base form)Examples“May I take your order?”“Yes, I **will have** the burger and fries combo, please”“The phone is ringing.”“I **will get** it.”(instant decision)“These files are really heavy.”“I **will help** you with them”(offer)It’s hard to get a cab at this hour. I will give you a ride home.(ofter)Can you lend me $200? I **will pay** you back next week.(promises)Thank you for your email. We **will respond** within two business days.(promises)making predictions: will & going towill ー＞predictions based on knowledge / personal experienceI think Spain **will win** the 2018 World CupYou should watch interstellar. I’m sure you **will love** itgoing to ー＞predictions based on something in the presentLook at the sky. It is **going to rain** soon.Mom is **going to be** really happy when she sees my grades.




Source: [Learn ALL TENSES Easily in 30 Minutes - Present, Past, Future | Simple, Continuous, Perfect - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3lI3R9_Z1HY&ab_channel=LearnEnglishLab)